Mikhail Ball
CIS45
Week 3 Written Assignment


1. What is a hard link?
A hard link creates a separate virtual file that contains information about original file and where to locate it. However they are physically the same file.


2. What is a symbolic link?
A symbolic link is a physical file that points to another file somewhere in the virtual directory structure. The files do not share the same content


3. List three characteristics of a hard link.

    a. Physically the same file as the linked file

    b. The inode number will be the same as the linked file

    c. number of links and file size will match the linked file



4. List three characteristics of a symbolic link.

     a. The -> symbol is displayed after the symbolic link file's long listing.

     b. Does not share contents with linked file

     c. inode number is different than linked file

5. What does the history command do?
Recalls the commands previously typed in the command line interface


6. List the function of the tail command .
Print the last 10 lines of a file to a standard output. (Number of lines can be specified but default is 10)



7. List the function of the head command.
The opposite of tail. prints the first 10 lines of a file to a standard output. (Number of lines can be specified but default is 10)


8. How would you find the first 14 lines of a file?
head -14 <file>


9. What is the difference between 'searching' and 'sorting' ?
Searching looks for a string and shows the related information.
Sorting puts the information selected in some sort if specified order.



10.  What is a process?
Any running program 



11. How do you find running processes on the system?
ps -A
top



12. How would you kill a running process with the PID of 1325 ?
kill 1325
but if it is a runaway process - kill -s HUP 1325


13. What does it mean to 'compress' data ?
Take a file and make it smaller (taking up less space).
The goal is to remove redundant data in each file by replacing common patterns with smaller variables


14. What is the difference between copy(cp) and move(mv) ?
copy makes a copy of the file to be in the original location and the new specified location with the new specified name


15. What does it mean to 'archive'  a file or archive data ?
To move a file or data that is no longer frequently used to a location for long term-retention. This will allow you to unarchive the data or file if you ever need it back.

