Mikhail Ball
cis45
Week 1 written assignment


1. What is the Linux Operating System?
The core component is the kernel. The operating system takes The kernel, the GNU utilities and a graphical desktop environment and runs them together as a seamless system.

2. Name at least 3 major parts of what makes up the Operating System?
The Linux kernel, The GNU utilities, and a graphical desktop environment.

3. The Kernel is the heart of the Linux Operating System.  How can you tell what version of the kernel you are running?
uname -a, The first number is the major number, the second number is the minor number, the third number is the release. If you see 4 numbers the last one is the package version
Even minor numbers are production, Odd minor numbers are development

4. What are the parts of the Kernel and what do they do?
  -system memory management: Manage the physical and virtual memory

  -software program management: Manages all the processes running on the system

  -hardware management: communication for any connected device by reading the driver code inside the kernel code.

  -filesystem management: Reading and writing to and from filesystems

5. What is a Process?
Any running program.

6. What does running in the foreground and running in the background means?
Foreground outputs information displayed to the user, Background performs functions behind the scenes.

7. What is the name of the first process that the Linux system creates?
init process

8. Kernel communicate with devices through Drivers ( True or False )____.]
True

9. There is no need to rebuild the kernel when you install new devices because Modules allow you to insert and remove Driver code in the Live Kernel. ( True or False)____.
True

10. All devices in Linux are identified by the kernel as Files. The types of files are Character, Block and Network.(True or False)____.
True

11. Describe what a character device is and give one example.
A device that handles data one character at a time such as modems and terminals.

12. Block devices handles data blocks at a time--example are Disk Drives--(True or false)
True

13. Which kind of file type will be used to send packets?
Network Device type file

14. What is the name of the special device files created by Linux for all devices on the system and makes use of a Major number and a Minor Number?
Nodes

15. What is a File System?
A system that controls how data is stored and retrieved

16. List at least 3 Linux file system types?
ext4,nfs,msdos

17. What is GNU? Who started the concept?
GNU's Not Unix. Richard Stallman

18. Describe the purpose of the SHELL
It provides users a way to start programs, manage files on the filesystem, and manage processes running on the kernel


19. What piece of software works directly with your Video card and Monitor in the PC when it comes to presenting graphics?
The X Window System

20. List at least 2 Desktops for Linux.
KDE Desktop, GNOME Desktop

21. What do you call a complete Linux system package?
A distribution

22. What is a Live CD and name at least 3 live Distros.
Allows you to boot your PC and run Linux w/o installing anything on the hard drive
Ubuntu, Puppy Linux, Slax

23. What is a Console?
The shells command line interface

24. When Linux starts, it creates many virtual consoles. ( True or False)_____.
True

25. CLI (command line interface) was the only means of accessing Linux before the Graphical User Interfaces were developed(True or False) _____.
Ture

26. How to access the virtual console:
CTRL + ALT + { F1 to F7 } Depending on the virtual console you want to use.


27. What two things must every user have to log onto a Linux system?
User ID and password

28. How do you see what shell you are in?
echo $0

29. Linux is an operating system and has a hierarchical file system that begins with the root directory '/'.  All files and directories are created relative to the '/' directory( True or False)?
True

30. How do you switch user from one user to another?
su = Switch user
[su -] (Will read your profile and puts you in the original shell that you are setup in)
[su] with no dash switches and starts fresh

